chore: solana docs (#1614)
alchemyplatform/aa-sdk: docs/pages/react/solana-wallets/get-started.mdx

---
title: Get started
description: Learn how to get started with Solana wallets using social login
text: Get started with Solana Wallets
link: /react/solana-wallets/get-started
slug: wallets/react/solana-wallets/get-started
---

<Warning>
  Solana Wallet support is in beta. Please [reach

>   out](mailto:support@alchemy.com) if you run in to any issues or need support

Reviewer: Here come some grammar nitpicks! Dw, I took AP English.
```suggestion
  out](mailto:support@alchemy.com) if you run into any issues or need support
```

  npm install @solana/web3.js
  ```
- A Solana RPC endpoint (e.g. `https://solana-devnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/<YOUR_API_KEY>`). Create an app on your [dashboard](https://dashboard.alchemy.com/apps) and enable Solana AND EVM networks (you'll need both).
- The latest `@account-kit/react` package installed:
  ```bash
  npm install @account-kit/react
  ```

# Creating a Solana Wallet

With Account Kit, you can generate a Solana wallet using familiar auth methods (ex: email, Google, or passkeys). All users get both an EVM and a Solana address after authenticating.

First, make sure you have already set up login methods and completed user [authentication](https://accountkit.alchemy.com/react/getting-started).

Adjust your config to add Solana support. Set up your Solana connection using the `solana` parameter in `createConfig`. This is where you’ll add your Alchemy RPC URL.

Note that you’ll still need to set a chain parameter. You can choose any random EVM chain that your app has enabled like `sepolia`.

```ts [config.tsx]
import { cookieStorage, createConfig } from "@account-kit/react";
import { Connection } from "@solana/web3.js";
import { sepolia } from "@account-kit/infra";
...

> createConfig({
> 	...otherConfig
>     chain: sepolia,
> 	solana: {
> 	  connection: new Connection(
> 	    "https://solana-devnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/<API_KEY>",
> 	    {
> 	      wsEndpoint: "wss://api.devnet.solana.com",
> 	      commitment: "confirmed",
> 	    }
> 	  ),
> 	  policyId: "<PolicyId>" // Optional - gas/rent sponsorship policy ID: https://dashboard.alchemy.com/gas-manager
> 	}
> }

Reviewer: Indentation fixes:
```suggestion
createConfig({
  ...otherConfig
  chain: sepolia,
  solana: {
    connection: new Connection(
      "https://solana-devnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/<API_KEY>",
      {
        wsEndpoint: "wss://api.devnet.solana.com",
        commitment: "confirmed",
      }
    ),
    policyId: "<PolicyId>" // Optional - gas/rent sponsorship policy ID: https://dashboard.alchemy.com/gas-manager
  }
}
```

```

# Getting a Solana Wallet address

Once a user has been authenticated, you can retrieve their Solana wallet address in 2 ways:

## Using `useSolanaSigner` hook

If you just want the Solana wallet address and signer, you can use this hook.

```jsx
import { useSolanaSigner } from "@account-kit/react";

function MyComponent() {
  const signer = useSolanaSigner({});

  if (!signer) {
    return <div>Loading signer...</div>;
  }

  return <div>Solana Address: {signer.address}</div>;
}
```

## Using `useSolanaTransaction` hook

> If you want to connect to a user’s Solana Wallet and send transactions, you should use the [`useSolanaTransaction`](TODO:linktosolanatrxns) hook for simplicty. This hook also exposes the Solana wallet address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to connect to a user’s Solana Wallet and send transactions, you should use the [`useSolanaTransaction`](TODO:linktosolanatrxns) hook for simplicity. This hook also exposes the Solana wallet address.
```
